Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to be looking at how we can trigger a function when the actual javascript
loads.
So let's say for instance we've got something that we want to happen but we want to always make sure
that we're waiting until all of the body contents have loaded so we can do an on load within the body.
And then all we need to do is simply identify the function that we want to trigger.
And so this will trigger off the function and let's create that functions so function my fun.
And then with and here is we can update one of the messages.
So we saw earlier that we could do documents we could to
were actually we can just update it because we already have it appear.
So let's do upt output that inner HTL Mal and let's update that to say welcome all loaded.
So that way this will actually trigger whenever the page loads.
And really you're not going to see it because it happens really fast.
So you can actually see it actually changing that but it is good to keep this in practice just to make
sure if you actually are trying to update some of the elements you want to make sure that it's actually
loaded already.
So you don't want to.
By chance maybe or javascript loads first.
And Dawn doesn't fully get a chance to load in this particular element.
So you want to make sure that everything got to load before you try to run that function.
And also you're able to load it.
So if you want to do on window on load so going back to window we could do window and that one is on
load.
So basically this one will trigger whenever the window is loaded.
So then you can do the same thing where if you wanted to run a function you can run a function there.
Oswell
also let me add some attributes.
So let's do the body in here as an attribute and then the other one I'm going to do the window as the
attribute.
So we'll see which one loads first and which one do you think will load first and that's
And for this one because
and for this one we need to do this a little bit differently where we need to create a function where
we can wrap around and then have the actual execution of the code here and then close that one off.
So we actually have a function where we're running that.
And then within here is where we can add a window and then both of these passing the argument and then
we just pick that up so do welcome and add the value that's being passed as the argument.
So let's take a look at this and see which one loads and we'll notice what's actually loading is the
window.
So actually if I was to comment so so and if I go back and refresh it that we're actually not getting
anything loading so the body isn't actually loading because we're actually overwriting.
So there's only one event listener here.
So either we're doing this one or this one.
And because this one is the last one basically it's firing off this and we've got a completely empty
function.
So nothing is actually being rendered out.
So if I was to actually remove the Windows completely go back and refresh the page then we see that
body actually loads in mind that the order that the javascript is presented on the page is important
as well as these event handlers get overwritten.
So we only have one to work with here and the onload.
So whether we're unloading for here or whether we're on loading for the window we can only do one.
We can only do one and only one will actually fire off and that's the last one that we're going to make
reference to here within our script.
So we're the one that you choose.
It's again up to you.
Usually I prefer to take the one within the javascript just because it's a lot easier because I've got
my javascript there and if I'm making edits to the javascript I don't always have to refer to my age
to Moul especially if I'm using a g file.
So what I want you to do now is try it for yourself.
You can select either one and have the have something change when your web page loads and that's all
you have to do for this exercise.
Update some of your H-2 mail content as soon as the page loads
and try that for yourself.
Get familiar with it.
Try both ways.
Both approaches to the onload and get familiar with them.